Establish generic Tekton results conventions (#103)
redhat-appstudio/book: ADR/0027-tekton-results-naming-convention.md

The standards presented in this ADR supersede those in [ADR 13. AppStudio Test Stream - API contracts](0013-integration-service-api-contracts.html). All other standards presented in the previous ADR hold unless _this_ ADR is superseded by an additional ADR that deprecates those standards. These other non-deprecated standards presented include [Detailed Conftest Output JSON](0013-integration-service-api-contracts.html#detailed-conftest-output-json), [Information injection](0013-integration-service-api-contracts.html#information-injection), [Information format](0013-integration-service-api-contracts.html#information-format), and [Image references](0013-integration-service-api-contracts.html#image-references).

### Results for Test-like Tasks
Test-like tasks are those whose results can be immediately classified as successful or failed. If these tests are taken into account in the final suitability of an artifact for promotion or release, then all pass/fail determination would be deferred to the task run.

> The output of each Tekton task will be provided in a minimized [Tekton result](https://tekton.dev/docs/pipelines/tasks/#emitting-results) in JSON format listing all test failures. The name of the result will be **TEST_OUTPUT**.

Reviewer: I'm hesitant to call everything that gets included in these results a test _failure_, since the test won't always fail (our build pipeline tests try to always run successfully so they don't halt a pipeline run). In the case of clair, as an example, it's reporting results to Enterprise Contract, and the contract decides what to do with the information. If no contract is enforced, then the data produced by clair will never fail anything. 

Suggested alternate wording as an option to consider.

```suggestion
The output of each Tekton task will be provided in a minimized [Tekton result](https://tekton.dev/docs/pipelines/tasks/#emitting-results) in JSON format listing the categories of reported test results and the count of results within each.  The name of the result will be **TEST_OUTPUT**.
```

#### Tekton Result Format for `TEST_OUTPUT`

The Test output of the Tekton result **TEST_OUTPUT** will be a JSON object that includes the context about the test along with the list of check names for all failed checks

The output will provide the following information about the overall test result:
- **result** - The outcome of the testing task, can be `SUCCESS`, `FAILURE`, `WARNING`, `SKIPPED` or `ERROR`
- **namespace** - The rego namespace for the test policy. If not set, it will be assumed to have the value `default`
- **timestamp** - An UNIX epoch timestamp of the test completion time
- **successes** - The number of successful checks in the form of an integer
- **note** - A short note provided by test workstream to provide additional information about the test
- **failures** - The number of failed checks in the form of an integer
- **warnings** - The number of warning checks in the form of an integer

#### `TEST_OUTPUT` Schema Validation
The output of the Tekton result **TEST_OUTPUT** can be validated using the following schema:

```
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema#",
  "type": "object",

>   "properties": {

Author: I think it is a great idea to track the digests that are processed, but I think it would be better as a separate result. This would prevent the bleed-through of implementations around multi-arch/Image Indexes into generic test frameworks. Instead, if a test/scan framework _is_ aware of these situations, it enables us to continue to refine the specification to limit the blast radius.

Some potential result names could be `REFS_PROCESSED`, `IMAGES_PROCESSED`, ~`IMAGE_ASSOCIATIONS`~, `DIGEST_OUTPUT`, `ASSOCIATED_REFS_OUTPUT`, ....

>   "properties": {

Author: This has been addressed in the most recent commit using a result named `IMAGES_PROCESSED`.

The Test output of the Tekton result **SCAN_OUTPUT** will be a JSON object that includes the following information about the found vulnerabilities. While the vulnerability classification may vary based on the scanner used in the task, an example description of vulnerability secerity ratings can be fount at the [Red Hat Vulnerability documentation](https://access.redhat.com/articles/red_hat_vulnerability_tutorial).

```
{
  "vulnerabilities": {
    "critical": 1,
    "high": 0,
    "medium": 1,
    "low":0
  }
}
```

#### `SCAN_OUTPUT` Schema Validation
The output of the Tekton result **SCAN_OUTPUT** can be validated using the following schema:

```
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema#",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "vulnerabilities": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "critical": {
          "type": "integer",
          "minimum": 0
        },
        "high": {
          "type": "integer",
          "minimum": 0
        },
        "medium": {
          "type": "integer",
          "minimum": 0
        },
        "low": {
          "type": "integer",
          "minimum": 0
        }
      },

>       "required": ["critical", "high", "medium", "low"]

Reviewer: @arewm Do you want to consider if there's a fix available as part of this proposal (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHTAP-1015)? or is that too specific for this moment in time?

Author: Clair and roxctl both have the fixable classification. We can propose something to meet that request in this ADR change or it can be left out.

If we are to try to encapsulate the fixable/unpatched concept into this return value, I would probably suggest a format like

```
{
  "vulnerabilities": {
    "critical": 1,
    "high": 0,
    "medium": 1,
    "low":0
  },
  "unpatched_vulnerabilities": {
    "critical": 0,
    "high": 1,
    "medium": 0,
    "low":1
  }
}
```

where the backwards-compatible case would default to those that are fixable and the unfixable ones have the new classification which _can_ be introduced in policies if desired.

Author: @MartinBasti, FYI

Reviewer 2: +1

also there are vulnerabilities with "unknown" severity, shall it be part of this ADR?

Author: Do you have an example of this? Is there a bug tracking this?

Reviewer 2: it's in clair output and also in quay.io 

https://quay.io/repository/martinbasti/single-container-app/manifest/sha256:edbffe44dd94babd6e4d25708cff444e23e7db8eb7c427ef1d0c50ae33d26f68?tab=vulnerabilities&fixable=true

There is a bug tracker, but I cannot get the ID right now

Reviewer 3: Fyi the [STONEINTG-425](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/STONEINTG-425) is now being implemented so the `unknown` severity vulnerabilities will start to show up in this output this week.

Author: I added this into these into the ADR.

The output of each Tekton task will be provided in a minimized [Tekton result](https://tekton.dev/docs/pipelines/tasks/#emitting-results) in JSON format listing all test failures. The name of the result will be **TEST_OUTPUT**.

#### Tekton Result Format for `TEST_OUTPUT`

The Test output of the Tekton result **TEST_OUTPUT** will be a JSON object that includes the context about the test along with the list of check names for all failed checks

The output will provide the following information about the overall test result:
- **result** - The outcome of the testing task, can be `SUCCESS`, `FAILURE`, `WARNING`, `SKIPPED` or `ERROR`
- **namespace** - The rego namespace for the test policy. If not set, it will be assumed to have the value `default`
- **timestamp** - An UNIX epoch timestamp of the test completion time
- **successes** - The number of successful checks in the form of an integer
- **note** - A short note provided by test workstream to provide additional information about the test
- **failures** - The number of failed checks in the form of an integer
- **warnings** - The number of warning checks in the form of an integer

#### `TEST_OUTPUT` Schema Validation

> The output of the Tekton result **TEST_OUTPUT** will be validated using the [jsonschema validator package](https://github.com/santhosh-tekuri/jsonschema).

Reviewer 4: Why mandate a specific implementation? Why not say JSON Schema validation will be performed.

Author: I included it because that was the language in ADR-13. I see other ADRs not linking to a specific implementation. I changed the text.

The schema is configured as follows:

```
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema#",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "result": {
      "type": "string",
      "enum": ["SUCCESS", "FAILURE", "WARNING", "SKIPPED", "ERROR"]
    },
    "namespace": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "timestamp": {
      "type": "string",

>       "pattern": "^[0-9]{10}$"

Reviewer 4: If this is a string why not prescribe it to be in RFC3339 format?

Author: @sonam1412 @dirgim, would this be a change that we can propose in this ADR -- to change the timestamp validation?

Reviewer 3: I think we could make the change - we'd need to implement the change on all sides though since we're all using a string currently.

Author: > I think we could make the change to use the int for the timestamp

What would be the proposed pattern to follow? `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`?

Reviewer 4: My 2c, either we change the type to a number, or we change to a standard format (RFC3339).

Reviewer 5: I think RFC3339 format is more readable.

Reviewer 3: Thinking about this some more, I also agree that we can switch to RFC3339 (So e.g. `2019-10-12T07:20:50.52Z`) and keep the string type for this field.

Author: This has been modified in the most recent commit.
